=head1 NAME

3dctl - script to control the status of 3d desktop effects

=head1 SYNOPSIS

3dctl [ACTION]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

3dctl is a desktop-manager agnostic script to control the status of 3d desktop
effects on Linux and other Unix-like operating systems. It lets you toggle
them, retrieve status information and automatically turn them back on after
a command completes.

=head1 ACTIONS

=over

=item B<on|off|toggle>

Turns desktop effects on or off (or toggles between them). If desktop effects
are not availabe, this action does nothing.

=item B<run2d> I<COMMAND>

Runs I<COMMAND> with 3d effects disabled. It will disable 3d effects, run
the command and then turn them back on again once the command exits, if
they were on. Everything after run2d is treated as a part of the command.

3dctl exports an environment variable, _RUNNING_UNDER_3DCTL="true", before
executing the command. This can be used to test for 3dctl and execute it
if needed. A method using a shell script might be:

	(type 3dctl &>/dev/null && [ "$_RUNNING_UNDER_3DCTL" != "true" ]) && exec 3dctl run2d "$0" "$@"

This will check if 3dctl is present, and if it is, and we are not already running
under it, execute ourselves under 3dctl run2d.

=item B<srun2d> I<COMMAND>

This is a variant of I<run2d>, where if the command exits before a short period
of time has passed (currently 15 seconds, but that may be adjusted in future
versions), it will not start 3D effects again. This is useful for cases where
command may fork into the background.

Other than that, it is identical to run2d (it will set _RUNNING_UNDER_3DCTL etc.).
So the modified run2d shell script snippet will work:

	(type 3dctl &>/dev/null && [ "$_RUNNING_UNDER_3DCTL" != "true" ]) && exec 3dctl srun2d "$0" "$@"

=item B<info>

Outputs some basic information about what kind of environment 3dctl has detected.
Will list the current 3d status and the WM detected.

=item B<status>

Will echo either on, off or unknown, depending on the 3d effect status.

=item B<-h, --help>

Outputs a simple help screen.

=item B<--version>

Outputs the 3dctl version.

=back

=head1 HELP/SUPPORT

If you need additional help, please visit the website at
L<http://random.zerodogg.org/3dctl>

=head1 BUGS AND LIMITATIONS

If you find a bug, please report it at L<http://random.zerodogg.org/3dctl/bugs>

=head1 AUTHOR

B<3dctl> is written by Eskild Hustvedt I<<code aatt zerodogg d0t org>>
